What About the Users?
Do you need your customers or users to buy into your Agile development approach?
It would be best for all if they did.
Do they really need to?
To optimize Agile benefits,
all stakeholders should be involved and follow Agile
principles and adopt Agile methodology, like SCRUM.
What if they don't?
You can still follow your Agile approach to some degree.
You can try and divide up one large project into
several mini projects or releases, but you may be fighting an uphill battle,
since all requirements first and software second is still
so ingrained in many companies today.
How Much and When?
Customers still want to know, how much will the entire system cost,
the budget they may need, how long will the entire system take to build,
the schedule.
With the Agile approach,
you may not know how much it will take to develop the entire system.
Users may want or expect this information upfront and early,
or they may not even approve the project.
An approach.
Use Release 1 to complete requirements gathering for the entire system,
using the practical tools from Module 2.
Now, let's look at this in more detail.
How Much and When, Part 2.
Inputs to Release Planning.
Use the guidance, direction, high-level scope,
etc., from your project definition template we discussed in Module 1.
To mitigate the issue of "how much and when" consider the first release to
be a broader analysis of the entire set of requirements.
Consider each iteration of the first release as an
opportunity to produce more refined requirements.
Iteration 1: using user stories and use cases develop
the necessary workflow diagrams, such as state or swim lanes.
Iteration 2: create screen prototypes and wireframes.
Iteration 3: create screen mockups, data model,
and business specification document.
And then a Release wrap up.
Revisit the roadmap planning and revise the product release plan.
Why Agile Makes Users Nervous.
It is important to understand why your Agile
customers and users will be nervous.
It will be your job as you gather requirements in an Agile environment,
to be aware of these concerns so you can better perform
your job in serving your customers.
Users want budget predictability.
Agile requires a huge leap of faith for customers who are used to hard
budgets and fixed bids (as are many people in the CFO role).
Users want technology predictability.
How do you ensure that the architecture scales?
How do you balance maintenance versus new features?
A traditional detailed requirements documents might reveal traps that
would appear in an Agile project at a very late stage.
Iterative versus disorganized and never-ending.
Users worry that development teams will avoid providing estimates,
documentation, and plans.
Remember,
you are the glue between the business and user community and
the software teams implementing Agile.
Why Agile Makes Users Nervous, Part 2: Yet 'another way' to make software.
Some users are overwhelmed at how collaborative and
interactive Agile projects are.
Users will see this as an increase in workload for project involvement.
Change is scary,
so adopt Agile over time and gradually incorporate Agile techniques; be patient.
Executive sponsorship.
Agile will have a good chance of taking hold if you have executive sponsorship.
Without executive sponsorship, a grass roots effort may be a course of action.
Have patience and look for small wins. Now, let's see how we can educate our customers.